.TH ASCIITEX 1 "17 Dec 2009"
.SH NAME
asciiTeX \- Equation ASCII renderer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B asciiTeX
.I [-v]
.I [-h]
.I [-f file]
.I [-ll line-length]
.I [equation]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B asciiTeX
is an ASCII equation renderer released under the terms of the The GNU
General Public License. The program can generate ASCII-art representations of 
mathematical equations. You can use asciiTeX to quickly insert equations in 
e.g. e-mails, in comments in your source-code, etc. The syntax is similar to LaTex.
This program is a the command-line utillity. For the graphical asciiTeX editor
see asciiTeX_gui. The asciiTeX project is a fork of eqascii, providing new 
features and many bug fixes to the original program.

.SH OPTIONS
.B -v
.br
Print out the version of the asciiTeX executable and exit.

.B -h
.br
Print out a brief summary of how to use the program and exit.

.B -f file
.br
This option specifies the equation should be read from a file (per default 
asciiTeX expects the equation on the command line).

.B -ll line-length
.br
With this option asciiTeX attempts to format the equation within the 
specified line width, i.e., asciiTeX will insert line breaks in order to
format long equations over several lines. The default is line-length 80
characters. With a specified line width of 0 asciiTeX will not insert line
breaks.

.B equation
.br
If the -f option is not specified the equation is read from the command line.

.SH SYNTAX
asciiTeX implements a LaTeX style syntax to format equations. 
.br
Accepted syntax:

.B \efrac{a}{b}
.br
A fraction of a and b.

.B a^{b}
.br
A superscript. One can also omit the braces. In this case the first character 
following ^ will be superscripted.

.B a_{b}
.br
A subscript. Works just like the superscript (well, not exactly of course).

.B \esqrt[n]{a}
.br
A n-th root of a, the argument [n] is optional. Without it it produces the square root
of a.

.B \esum
.br
Expands to a sigma

.B \eprod
.br
Expands to the product mark (pi).

.B \eint
.br
Expands to the integral mark.

.B \eoint
.br
A closed path integral.

.B \eleft(
,
.B \eright)
.br
Expands to braces which adept to the height of their content. Available left braces are:
.B ([{|
The corresponding right braces are:
.B )]}|
All brace types can be opened by
.B \eleft. 
or closed by 
.B \eright.
, producing a single right
or left brace, respectively.

.B \eleadsto
.br
Expands to an arrow (~>), May look ugly depending on your fonts.

.B \eto
.br
Expands to an arrow (->).

.B \elimit{x}
.br
Expands to a limit, i.e. \elimit{x \eto 0}.

.B \eoverline{X}
.br
Draws a line above expression X

.B \eunderline{X}
.br
Draws a line under expression X

.B \elceil
.br
Left ceiling symbol

.B \erceil
.br
Right ceiling symbol

.B \elfloor
.br
Left floor symbol

.B \erfloor
.br
Right floor symbol

.B \e\e
.br
Insert a line break.

.B \ebegin{array}[pos]{column alignments}
.br
.I
    a00 & a01 & ... a0n \e\e 
.br 
    a10 & a11 & ... a1n \e\e
.br
    ... & ... & ... ... \e\e
.br
    am0 & am1 & ... amn
.br
.B \eend{array}
.br
Makes an array. The optional argument pos sets the alignment of the array to t(op),
b(ottom) or c(enter). The column alignments consist of one character per column,
l(eft), c(enter), or r(ight). Currently asciiTeX does not support vertical or horizontal
lines, e.g. the column-alignment specification "{|c|}" will lead to errors. Note, that 
the string \fI\ebegin{array}\fR must not contain spaces. Cells of the array may contain 
formulas and sub-arrays.

.B \ea
.br
Escapes the character \fIa\fR. Useful for inserting characters like ^, and _ in your equation.  

.SH EXAMPLES
A simple fraction:
.nf
asciiTeX "\efrac{1}{1+x}"
  1  
-----
1 + x

.fi
An arbitrary equation:
.nf
asciiTeX "\elfloorx\erfloor = x \-\efrac{1}{2} + \esum_{k=1}^{\einfty} 
\efrac{sin(2 Pi k x)}{pi k}"

             1      __ oo  sin(2 Pi k x)  
|_x_| = x  - -  +  \e       -------------  
             2     /__ k=1     pi k       


.fi
More examples can be found in the file "examples"
.nf
asciiTeX -f examples
.fi
.SH AUTHORS
Bart Pieters.br
Przemek Borys (author of the original program, eqascii)

.SH LICENSE
GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE Version 2

.SH VERSION
0.2

.SH SEE ALSO
.B asciiTeX_gui(1)

